> In Azure Active Directory, **Access review**, you can create reviewer for the permissions

> Use the security solution of **Shared Access Signature (SAS)** to give users time limited access to **blob** or any other resources (e.g. only access to one month of the year)

> To access an app that is hosted on-premises and use Single Sign on, you need to download a connector under **Azure AD application Proxy** to _access to the on-premises network_ and Create a new application under **Azure AD Enterprise applications** to be able to use _Single Sign on_

> **Azure Data Lake** includes all the capabilities required to make it easy for developers, data scientists and analysts to store data of any size, shape and speed, and do all types of processing and analytics across platforms and languages

> What is Azure **Databricks**? Azure Data Factory (ADF) is a data orchestration tool as well as an ELT (Extract, Load, and Transform) tool that enables professionals to develop pipelines that help in moving data across various layers in the cloud or from on-premise to the cloud.

> Databricks SKU should be a Premium plan. As the doc states both cloud storage access and credential passthrough (accessing folder based on the permission) features will need a Premium plan.

> SKT means `stock keeping unit`, which means item on sale. e.g. Azure Load balancer has 3 SKUs: basic, standard, and gateway

> the term **cluster** is used to describe a group of connected computers (nodes) working together as a single system

> **App registration** needed for SSO/identity on Windows 10 to be able to access the **app** registered in Azure web app without being prompted for authentication. **Conditional Access** policy needed for only allowing company-owned devices

> **ExpressRoute** lets you extend your on-premises networks into the Microsoft cloud over a private connection with the help of a connectivity

> Network Watcher **IP flow verify** checks if a packet is allowed or denied to or from a virtual machine based on 5-tuple information.

> You can assign Azure policy at **Management Group**, **Subscription**, **Resource group** level

> AD and MFA to connect to the app from the on-premise server. AD **application proxy**, the app should be the **enterprise application**, then **conditional access** for MFA.
> Azure Application Proxy is a feature in Microsoft Azure that enables remote access to web applications that are hosted on-premises or in the cloud, without the need for a virtual private network (VPN) connection. It allows users to securely access web applications hosted behind the firewall without exposing them to the internet, providing an additional layer of security to the web applications.

> ExpressRoute can be configured and deployed for on-premises (VMs) to Azure connectivity
> And to check if packet is allowed or denied, use **Azure Network Watcher **to analyze network traffic

> In The Azure Monitor Log, if you want to find logs in the table, Events from Windows event logs are registered in the `Event` table and Linux system logs can be found in `SysLog` table

> Azure provides four levels of scope: management groups, subscriptions, resource groups, and resources. A management group is a container that helps you manage access, policies, and compliance across multiple subscriptions.A resource group, on the other hand, is a logical container for resources in Azure

> How to store creation of users and the assignment of roles and save it to the Azure Cosmos DB? Using Event hub, get the data and populate the data in Azure Cosmo DB

> You can use Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) Privileged Identity Management (PIM) to create access reviews for privileged access to Azure resource and Azure AD roles

> AD privileged identity management (AD PIM) can be used to create access reviews for privileged access to Azure resources and AD roles and time bound access to resources

> Azure management identity is the one used in C# to get the key from KeyVault

> Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) offers many capabilities for protecting users, apps, and data in the cloud and on-premises. In particular, the Azure AD Application Proxy feature can be implemented by IT professionals who want to publish on-premises web applications externally. Remote users who need access to internal apps can then access them in a secure manner.

> The **Azure Activity Log** provides insights into **subscription-level events** that have occurred in Azure. It can be used to monitor the operations performed on resources in the subscription, including when resources are created or modified. You can create a Log Analytics workspace and configure a log query to retrieve the details of new resource deployments for a given time range. This query can then be scheduled to run monthly and generate a report of new ARM resource deployments.

> **ExpressRoute** is deployed and configured for on-premises to **Azure connectivity**.

> **Azure Network Watcher** **IP Flow Verif**y, which allows you to detect traffic filtering issues at a VM level.

> To be able to **capture** creation of useres and assignments of the roles stored in Azure Cosmo DB,

1. Event Hub: You can export AD logs to an Azure Event Hub (even you can cherry picking which ones)
   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/tutorial-azure-monitor-stream-logs-to-event-hub
2. Azure Function: You easily create a serverless function to read events from the Event Hub and store them in a CosmosDB.
   https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-functions/functions-event-hub-cosmos-db?tabs=bash
